[Music]
around 1469 a wealthy money changer
commissioned a young painter named
sandro botticelli to paint an altarpiece
Botticelli would of course become known
as one of the greatest painters of the
high Renaissance producing works like la
primavera and The Birth of Venus but in
1469 he had not yet earned this
reputation the scene this young artist
set out to paint was well-known the
three wise men or Magi arriving at the
birthplace of Jesus Christ Botticelli
would aspire to take this common theme
and produce an entirely original work
while asserting himself among the most
important citizens of Florence many
earlier paintings illustrate the Magi
arriving at a stable stately manger
fitting for the Son of God
the young Botticelli however chose to
place the scene in the dilapidated Roman
ruin at the center of this structure he
placed a sturdy rock for Mary and Jesus
to sit high above their visitors with
this decision Botticelli seemed to say
Christianity will be built on sturdier
stuff than Rome but ocelli then
populated the space with important men
from his city on the right side he
paints the man who paid for this work
gwass para de llama looking out at the
viewer and confidently pointing at
himself that there is no question who
was responsible for this masterpiece
they'll born the son of a barber de
l'Alma amassed a good sum of money
through currency exchange in his
lifetime he earned enough money to buy a
burial chapel and decorate it with a
pretty painting the three wise men
appear at the center of this painting
kneeling to Mary and Jesus as models for
these important figures Botticelli used
members of the important medici family
the lamas career as a moneychanger would
not have been possible without the help
of the powerful medici family in
particular Cosimo de Medici who appears
prominently at Mary's feet the other
wise men can be identified as Piero and
Giovanni de Medici Cosimo's two sons the
business of money exchange had dubious
ethical and legal associations so the
friendship of this powerful family was
important and the young heir to Medici
power Lorenzo
could not be omitted from this paintings
composition he appears to the left of
the manger this painting seems to say
the medici legacy with the too many
healthy heirs will be built on sturdier
stuff than Rome but ocelli then filled
the rest of the space with other friends
and powerful figures from Florence and
among the Florentine elite the young
confident artists painted himself
looking directly at the viewer
Botticelli's presence in this painting
illustrates a radical shift in the
perception of artists during this time
period
Botticelli did not view himself as a
common craftsman hired for a simple job
he viewed himself as a friend to the
powerful families of Florence paintings
like the adoration of the Magi reveal
much more than a simple retelling of a
biblical story they can tell the story
of among other things a modestly borne
moneychanger attempting to spend his
money virtuously by making a local
chapel more beautiful or the story of an
ambitious young painter elevating the
reputation of his craft to stand among
the wealthy elite of his city
you